# Chapter 1.4: The Command for Everything

Welcome to Chapter 1.4!

In this section, we're going to introduce commands that are not only going to be useful in Nucleus, but also in absolutely everywhere that needs the Terminal to work!

## Let's recap a bit.

In the last chapter we ended up creating a project in our "Projects" folder, with the Terminal in that specific directory.

However, if we want the Terminal to be *inside* our project, our best solution so far would've be closing the Terminal, go to the project and open the Terminal again... But isn't that **too time consuming?**

The answer is **Yes**! You are right, there should've be a much quicker way to open folders... **Luckily there is one!**

## The "Change Directory" (`cd`) command

**`cd`** is a command that will allow you to go through folders *inside* the Terminal! Pretty cool huh?

So, to go to your project, you can just do:

```
path/to/Projects>cd MyFirstProject
path/to/Projects/MyFirstProject>
```

**And voalá! We're in!**

And you know what's even better? **You can go back!** by just typing `cd ..`

```
path/to/Projects/MyFirstProject>cd ..
path/to/Projects>
```

### "What does '..'' mean?" you're probably asking...

The two dots are a representation of the **Parent Folder** (the folder that contains the folder you're in).

So if i'm in `C:/Users/MyUser/Documents` for example, `Documents` is **a child** of `MyUser`, and `MyUser` is **The Parent** of `Documents`, like a Family Tree!

So if you put it in that context, `C:/` is **The Grand-grandparent** of `Documents`. So, to access `C:/` *from* `Documents` you do:

```
C:/Users/MyUser/Documents> cd ../../../
C:/>
```

See?

### Wait, you can use "/"s aswell?

**Yes!** you can use those aswell!

For instance, if we're in `C:/` and we want to go back to `Documents`, we could use `cd` to go through each directory one at a time:

```
C:/>cd Users
C:/Users/>cd MyUser
C:/Users/MyUser>cd Documents
C/Users/MyUser/Documents>
```

But... **that's pretty slow isn't it**?

Since we already know the full path, we could just do it in one go by using "/".

```
C:/>cd Users/MyUser/Documents
C/Users/MyUser/Documents>
```

And we're back in Documents!

Pretty Easy!

But you'll probably going to come up with another issue...

### The issue with Spaces.

At one point in time, you're gonna have an issue with having spaces in your path. Something that in beginners is **very** common.

For example, imagine that you're in a Windows PC and you have your favorite game in a folder called `My Favorite Game` which contains the contents of it, and a `run.exe`.

This folder is stored in `C:/Users/MyUser`, and you have the Terminal opened in there.

So you open from the `MyUser` and this happens:

```
C:/Users/MyUser>My Favorite Game/run.exe
'My' is not recognized as an internal or external command,
operable program or batch file.
```

**Why is this happening?**

This happens because spaces are used to split subcommands, so it thinks that the word `My` is an executable, and `Favourite Game/...` are subcommands.

To fix this, you just quote the entire path:

```
C:/Users/MyUser>"My Favorite Game/run.exe"
```

If you're passing arguments, you do it outside of the quotes:

```
C:/Users/MyUser>"My Favorite Game/run.exe" hello
```

### Other Tricks.

You don't have to type the full path in `cd` if the folder that you're looking for is in the same directory. Probably you're gonna have to type the full path if you're in somewhere side in your hard drive, for example:

```
another/folder/in/your/drive>cd "path/to/Projects/MyFirstProject"
path/to/Projects/MyFirstProject>
```

Or you can just use the File Explorer solution we talked in the last chapter if typing the full path is too slow for you.

## Great!

Now you know the most basic command that is in *mostly* any operating system that you can find!

There are other commands that are useful, like `ls` (`dir` on Windows) to see the contents of the folder in the Terminal for example, or `rm` (`del` on Windows) to delete a file, but those are commands that i'll leave up to you to do research since its a *really* vast world of commands and sometimes have different names depending on the Operating System.

## But then, why putting effort into explaining `cd` if commands can be different in other platforms?

Because `cd` is like a universal command that is in most if not all Operating Systems that come with a Terminal, so the `cd` in Windows is `cd` in Linux which is `cd` in MacOS which is `cd` in BSD, etc.

And its also something extremely basic and crucial to learn because otherwise you wouldn't know how to traverse across folders.

## Aaaaaand, that's it!

You know how the Terminal works and how to navigate it!

See? It wasn't that hard at all!

Now you can start coding like a pro! So exciting!

So buckle up, because we can finally go to **Chapter 2**! See you there! :D

*(TODO: Make Chapter 2)*